.TH LOGKSI 1
.\"
.SH NAME
\fBlogksi \fR- Log signature tool of Keyless Signature Infrastructure (KSI).
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 4
\fBlogksi \fR[\fB-h\fR][\fB--version\fR]
.HP 4
\fBlogksi \fBcommand\fR \fB-h\fR
.HP 4
\fBlogksi \fBcommand\fR [\fIservice_parameters\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Keyless Signature Infrastructure (KSI) is an industrial scale blockchain platform that cryptographically ensures data integrity and proves time of existence. Its keyless signatures, based on hash chains, link data to global calendar blockchain.
The checkpoints of the blockchain, published in newspapers and electronic media, enable long term integrity of any digital asset where only trusted publications file or a publication string in printed media is needed to perform the verification.
.LP
Log signature tool is specifically designed to add and manage KSI signatures for any type of logs, it enables:
.LP
.IP \(bu 4
Integrating temporary files containing log signature blocks and KSI signatures into one final log signature file (\fBlogksi-integrate\fR(1)).
.IP \(bu 4
Sign recovery of possible unsigned blocks in a final log signature file (\fBlogksi-sign\fR(1)).
.IP \(bu 4
Extending of KSI signatures in a log signature file (\fBlogksi-extend\fR(1)).
.IP \(bu 4
Verifying the KSI signatures in a log signature file (\fBlogksi-verify\fR(1)).
.LP
To use \fBlogksi\fR the log entries and log blocks need to be hashed. List of accepted hashing algorithms is available in help text (\fB-h\fR).
.LP
.SH KSI COMMANDS
.LP
.TP
\fBsign\fR
Signs the previously unsigned log blocks in a given log signature file. Only to be used for sign recovery, as routine signing should be done during logging itself. See \fBlogksi-sign\fR(1) for more information.
.\"
.TP
\fBverify\fR
Verifies existing log signatures. See \fBlogksi-verify\fR(1) for more information.
.\"
.TP
\fBextend\fR
Extends existing log signatures to the given publication. See \fBlogksi-extend\fR(1) for more information.
.\"
.TP
\fBintegrate\fR
Integrates temporary log signature file with signature blocks and log signature file containing the KSI signatures into final log signature file. See \fBlogksi-integrate\fR(1) for more information.
.\"
.TP
\fBconf\fR
Defines the KSI service configuration. See \fBlogksi-conf\fR(5) for more information.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Print help text. Use \fBlogksi command -h\fR to print help for the specific command.
.\"
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Print version info.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
\fBExit success.\fR Returned if everything is OK.
.\"
.TP
\fB1
\fBExit failure.\fR A general failure occurred.
.\"
.TP
\fB3
\fBInvalid command-line parameter.\fR The content or format of a command-line parameter is invalid or a parameter is missing.
.\"
.TP
\fB4
\fBInvalid format.\fR Input data to KSI library is invalid, for example signature or publication file format is invalid.
.\"
.TP
\fB5
\fBNetwork error.\fR KSI log signature tool is unable to connect to the service, connection is timed out or an HTTP error was returned from the KSI service.
.\"
.TP
\fB6
\fBVerification error.\fR Verification of signature or document hash failed.
.\"
.TP
\fB7
\fBExtending error.\fR Error in extending a signature or an error was returned by KSI Extender.
.\"
.TP
\fB8
\fBAggregation error.\fR Error returned by KSI Aggregator.
.\"
.TP
\fB9
\fBInput / output error.\fR Unable to read or write file.
.\"
.TP
\fB10
\fBCryptographic error.\fR Error may be generated due to mistrusted or unavailable hash algorithm or by an invalid PKI signature/mistrusted certificate.
.\"
.TP
\fB11
\fBHMAC error.\fR HMAC of aggregation or extend response does not match.
.\"
.TP
\fB12
\fBNo privileges.\fR Operating system did not grant privileges to perform an operation.
.\"
.TP
\fB13
\fBSystem out of memory.\fR
.\"
.TP
\fB14
\fBAuthentication error.\fR KSI Aggregation or Extending service did not accept the provided access credentials.
.br
.\"
.TP
\fB16
\fBInvalid configuration.\fR KSI log signature tool configuration or KSI C API library configuration is invalid.
.br
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The \fBKSI_CONF\fR environment variable points to the KSI configuration file containing the KSI service related parameters such as the URLs to the KSI Aggregator and Extender service and the corresponding access credentials. See \fBlogksi-conf\fR(5) for more information.
.LP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Guardtime AS, http://www.guardtime.com/
.LP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlogksi-sign\fR(1), \fBlogksi-integrate\fR(1), \fBlogksi-extend\fR(1), \fBlogksi-verify\fR(1), \fBlogksi-conf\fR(5)
