.TH LOGKSI-INTEGRATE 1
.\"
.SH NAME
\fBlogksi integrate \fR- Integrate the log signature blocks file and respective KSI signatures file into a final log signature file.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 4
\fBlogksi integrate \fI<logfile>\fR [\fB-o \fI<out.logsig>\fR]
.HP 4
\fBlogksi integrate \fI<logfile>\fR \fB--recover\fR [\fB-o \fI<out.recovered.logsig>\fR] [\fB--out-log \fI<log.recovered>\fR]
.HP 4
\fBlogksi integrate \fI<logfile>\fR \fR[\fI<logsig.parts>\fR] \fB--recover\fR [\fB-o \fI<out.recovered.logsig>\fR] [\fB--out-log \fI<log.recovered>\fR]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Integrates the two temporary log signature part files created while asynchronously signing the log file \fI<logfile>\fR:
.LP
.IP \(bu 4
the log signature blocks file: \fI<logfile>.logsig.parts/blocks.dat\fR; and
.IP \(bu 4
the log signature file containing the respective KSI signatures: \fI<logfile>.logsig.parts/block-signatures.dat\fR.
.LP
If the output file name is not specified, it is derived from the name of the log file \fI<logfile>\fR by adding the standard suffix \fI.logsig\fR. An attempt to overwrite an existing log signature file will result in an error, unless the \fB--force-overwrite\fR option is specified.
.LP
The integration of the files can be performed once both files are complete. \fBlogksi integrate \fR waits to acquire a POSIX style read lock on the files before integrating them. The read lock is advisory and relies on the same implementation in the signing application.
.LP
If the log signature parts do not exist, but a matching log signature exists (derived from \fI<logfile>\fR or pointed by \fB-o\fR), it is assumed that the log signature is the output of a synchronous signing process. Option \fB-o\fR is useful when resulting log signature is zipped or renamed other than expected default. \fBlogksi integrate \fR waits to acquire a POSIX style read lock on the log signature file and then skips the actual integration. The read lock is advisory and relies on the same implementation in the signing application.
.LP
During integration the following is checked:
.LP
.IP \(bu 4
The order of log blocks in \fIblocks.dat\fR and KSI signatures in \fIblock-signatures.dat\fR needs to match.
.IP \(bu 4
The root hash of each block in the log signature blocks file needs to be equal to the one in the KSI signatures file.
.LP
If some KSI signatures are missing from the log signature file \fIblock-signatures.dat\fR, a respective \fIno-sig\fR field is recognised and integration is performed anyway. A warning message is printed about the missing KSI signatures with a recommendation to run \fBlogksi sign\fR to acquire the missing signatures.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fI<logfile>\fR
Log file to which the temporary files belong to.
.\"
.TP
\fI<logsig.parts>\fR
Directory containing log signature parts. Useful with \fB--recover\fR when log file and log signature parts are separated.
.\"
.TP
\fB-o\fR \fI<out.logsig>\fR
Specify the name of the integrated output log signature file; recommended file extension is \fI.logsig\fR. If not specified, the log signature file is saved as \fI<logfile>.logsig\fR (or \fI<logfile>.recovered.logsig\fR if \fB--recover\fR is set) in the same folder where the \fI<logfile>\fR is located. An attempt to overwrite an existing log signature file will result in an error. Use '\fB-\fR' as file name to redirect the output as a binary stream to \fIstdout\fR.
.\"
.TP
\fB--out-log\fR \fI<logfile>\fR
Specify the name of recovered log file (only valid with \fB--recover\fR). If not specified, the log signature file is saved as \fI<logfile>.recovered\fR in the same folder where the \fI<logfile>\fR is located. An attempt to overwrite an existing log file will result in an error. Use '\fB-\fR' as file name to redirect the output as a binary stream to \fIstdout\fR.
.\"
.TP
\fB--insert-missing-hashes\fR
Pre-emptively repair the log signature by inserting missing final tree hashes. Final tree hashes might be missing if the Merkle tree is not perfectly balanced. If the option is not used during integration, a warning message is printed about missing hashes with a recommendation to run \fBlogksi sign\fR with the \fB--insert-missing-hashes\fR option. Inserting missing hashes improves verifiablity, but a log signature without final tree hashes is verifiable as well.
.\"
.TP
\fB--force-overwrite\fR
Force overwriting of an existing log signature. If the existing log signature contains KSI signatures obtained during sign recovery, these signatures are lost and must be obtained again by running \fBlogksi sign\fR. With \fB--recover\fR this will also affect \fB--out-hash\fR.
.\"
.\"
.TP
\fB--recover\fR
Tries to recover as many blocks as possible from corrupted log and log signature temporary files. For example if block no. 6 is corrupted it is possible to recover log records and log block signatures until the end of the block no. 5. By default output file names are derived from the log file name: \fR<logfile>.recovered\fR and \fR<logfile>.recovered.logsig\fR for log and log signature file accordingly. If the files already exist, error is returned (see \fB-o\fR, \fB--out-log\fR and \fB--force-overwrite\fR).
.\"
.TP
\fB-d\fR
Print detailed information about processes and errors to \fIstderr\fR. To make output more verbose increase debug level with \fB-dd\fR or \fB-ddd\fR. With debug level 1 a summary of log file is displayed. With debug level 2 a summary of each block and the log file is displayed. Debug level 3 will display the whole parsing of the log signature file. The parsing of \fIrecord hashes (r)\fR, \fItree hashes (.)\fR, \fIfinal tree hashes (:)\fR and \fImeta-records (M)\fR is displayed inside curly brackets in following manner \fI{r.Mr..:}\fR. In case of a failure \fI(X)\fR is displayed and closing curly bracket is omitted.
.\"
.TP
\fB--hex-to-str\fR
Will encode applicable hex encoded data fields to ASCII string (e.g. meta-record value). Non-printable characters are displayed in hex with leading backslash (e.g. 'Text\\00').
.\"
.TP
\fB--log \fIfile\fR
Write \fIlibksi\fR log to the given file. Use '\fB-\fR' as file name to redirect the log to \fIstdout\fR.
.br
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
See \fBlogksi\fR(1) for more information.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 2
\fB1
\fRTo integrate temporary files \fI/var/log/secure.logsig.parts/blocks.dat\fR and \fI/var/log/secure.logsig.parts/block-signatures.dat\fR into a complete log signature file with the default name \fI/var/log/secure.logsig\fR:
.LP
.RS 4
\fBlogksi integrate \fI/var/log/secure
.RE
.\"
.TP 2
\fB2
\fRTo integrate partially corrupted temporary files (log file is \fImy-corrupted-log\fR and log signature parts can be found from \fImy-corrupted-log.logsig.parts\fR) into a recovered log and log signature file, run command below. For example block no. 6 can not be parsed, thus it is possible to recover log up to the end of block no. 5. Log and log signature files will be saved into \fImy-corrupted-log.recovered\fR and \fImy-corrupted-log.recovered.logsig\fR accordingly:
.LP
.RS 4
\fBlogksi integrate --recover\fR \fImy-corrupted-log\fR
.RE
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Guardtime AS, http://www.guardtime.com/
.LP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlogksi\fR(1), \fBlogksi-create\fR(1), \fBlogksi-extend\fR(1), \fBlogksi-extract\fR(1), \fBlogksi-sign\fR(1), \fBlogksi-verify\fR(1), \fBlogksi-conf\fR(5)
